README.md, before:

# lss_solr_configs
Configuration files for HT full-text search (ls) Solr

## Overview

A solr configuration for LSS consists of five symlinks in the same directory
that point to the correct files for that core:

Three of these symlinks will point to the same file regardless of what
core you're configuring:

* `1000common.txt`.  See [background information](https://www.hathitrust.org/blogs/large-scale-search/slow-queries-and-common-words-part-2)
and [how to update the list of words](https://tools.lib.umich.edu/confluence/display/HAT/Tuning+CommonGrams+and+the+cache-warming+queries).
* `schema.xml`, the generic schema file
* `solrconfig.xml`, the generic solr configuration for handlers and config

The other two files are specific to whether it's an x/y core (`similarity.xml`)
and what the core number is `mergePolicy.xml` These are referenced in `schema.xml`
and `solrconfig.xml` via a standard XML `<!ENTITY <name> SYSTEM "./<relative_file_path>">`.
This allows us to have a single base file that can be modified just by
putting a symlink to the right file in the conf directory.


* `similarity.xml` contains directives to use either the tfidf or BM25 similarity
scores and are stored in the corresponding directories. We've
been linking the tfidf file into `core-#x` and the BM25 into `core-#y` for each
of the cores.
* `mergePolicy.xml` configures merge variables and ramBuffer size for each 
  individual core (as [specified in Confluence](https://tools.lib.umich.edu/confluence/display/HAT/Tuning+re-indexing)),
  with a goal of making them different enough that it's 
  less likely that many cores will be involved in big merges at the same time.

  Note that production solrs should symlink in `serve/mergePolicy.xml`, while the 
  indexing servers should use the core-specific version in the 
  `indexing_core_specific` directory.

Build Images
`docker build -t solr-text-search-8 .`

Run the image
`docker run -p 8983:8983 -t solr-text-search-8`

Steps to index data and store it in the image

* Create the image:  `docker build -t solr-text-search-8 .`
* Excecute the image to create a volume: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up`
* Indexing data with python script
* After indexing data, save the image and push the image to the server
  * `docker container commit d00962259886 solr-text-search-8:latest`
  * `docker image tag solr-text-search-8:latest ghcr.io/hathitrust/full-text-search-solr:example-8.11`
  * `docker image push ghcr.io/hathitrust/full-text-search-solr:example-8.11`

Running solr using the docker-compose.yml is not working yet, because Solr does not find the cores
See this page for other having the same issue: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75581502/solr-in-docker-container-unable-to-work-with-persistent-data-store
It seems I should create the data folder inside the docker.

Launch Solr server
`docker-compose -f lss-dev/docker-compose.yml up`

Stop Solr server
`docker-compose -f lss-dev/docker-compose.yml down` 

`docker exec -it solr-lss-dev-8 /bin/bash`

## What is the problem we are trying to solve

These files customize Solr for HT full-text search for Solr 6. Our very large indexes require significant changes to Solr defaults in order to work.  We also have custom indexing to deal with multiple languages, and very large documents.

## Deployment and Use

### Re-Indexing

Notes about customizing solrconfig.xml go here
### Testing
### Deployment to Production
### Production Indexing
### Production Serving


## Migrating to later versions of Solr/Lucene
This may need a separate document on confluence.  Think about it...

## Background details

## Considerations for future modification

### Move to AWS


### Testing


## Links to more background

Commit message:

Create a standalong solr 8.11.2 image indexing data

README.md, after:

# lss_solr_configs
Configuration files for HT full-text search (ls) Solr

## Overview

A solr configuration for LSS consists of five symlinks in the same directory
that point to the correct files for that core:

Three of these symlinks will point to the same file regardless of what
core you're configuring:

* `1000common.txt`.  See [background information](https://www.hathitrust.org/blogs/large-scale-search/slow-queries-and-common-words-part-2)
and [how to update the list of words](https://tools.lib.umich.edu/confluence/display/HAT/Tuning+CommonGrams+and+the+cache-warming+queries).
* `schema.xml`, the generic schema file
* `solrconfig.xml`, the generic solr configuration for handlers and config

The other two files are specific to whether it's an x/y core (`similarity.xml`)
and what the core number is `mergePolicy.xml` These are referenced in `schema.xml`
and `solrconfig.xml` via a standard XML `<!ENTITY <name> SYSTEM "./<relative_file_path>">`.
This allows us to have a single base file that can be modified just by
putting a symlink to the right file in the conf directory.


* `similarity.xml` contains directives to use either the tfidf or BM25 similarity
scores and are stored in the corresponding directories. We've
been linking the tfidf file into `core-#x` and the BM25 into `core-#y` for each
of the cores.
* `mergePolicy.xml` configures merge variables and ramBuffer size for each 
  individual core (as [specified in Confluence](https://tools.lib.umich.edu/confluence/display/HAT/Tuning+re-indexing)),
  with a goal of making them different enough that it's 
  less likely that many cores will be involved in big merges at the same time.

  Note that production solrs should symlink in `serve/mergePolicy.xml`, while the 
  indexing servers should use the core-specific version in the 
  `indexing_core_specific` directory.

Build Images
`docker build -t solr-text-search-8 .`

Run the image
`docker run -p 8983:8983 -t solr-text-search-8`

Use the docker-compose to solr start up and for indexing data
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up

Steps to index data and store it in the image

* Create the image:  `docker build -t solr-text-search-8 .`
* Excecute the image to create a volume: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up`
* Indexing data with python script
* After indexing data, save the image and push the image to the server
  * `docker container commit d00962259886 solr-text-search-8:latest`
  * `docker image tag solr-text-search-8:latest ghcr.io/hathitrust/full-text-search-solr:example-8.11`
  * `docker image push ghcr.io/hathitrust/full-text-search-solr:example-8.11`

Running solr using the docker-compose.yml is not working yet, because Solr does not find the cores
See this page for other having the same issue: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75581502/solr-in-docker-container-unable-to-work-with-persistent-data-store
It seems I should create the data folder inside the docker.

Launch Solr server
`docker-compose -f lss-dev/docker-compose.yml up`

Stop Solr server
`docker-compose -f lss-dev/docker-compose.yml down` 

`docker exec -it solr-lss-dev-8 /bin/bash`

## What is the problem we are trying to solve

These files customize Solr for HT full-text search for Solr 6. Our very large indexes require significant changes to Solr defaults in order to work.  We also have custom indexing to deal with multiple languages, and very large documents.

## Usefull comands

Delete documents by curl command, you should add commit=true

`curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    'http://<host>:<port>/solr/<core>/update?commit=true' \
    -d '{ "delete": {"query":"*:*"} }'`

Below one can be used through browser:

`http://host:port/solr/collection_name/update?commit=true&stream.body=<delete><query>*:*</query></delete>`

## Deployment and Use

### Re-Indexing

Notes about customizing solrconfig.xml go here
### Testing
### Deployment to Production
### Production Indexing
### Production Serving


## Migrating to later versions of Solr/Lucene
This may need a separate document on confluence.  Think about it...

## Background details

## Considerations for future modification

### Move to AWS


### Testing


## Links to more background
